#summary A rough install guide for the Trader Decision Support System

= Introduction =

This is a rough guide to installing the Trader DSS on a Unix like operating system

= Details =

== Perl Setup ==
  * Install the following. The example here uses the CPAN module to do the work. _Note:_ Date::Manip 6+ requires Perl 5.10+ which isn't the default on most systems yet. If you don't have Perl 5.10 then download Date::Manip 5.x from [http://ftp.esat.net/pub/languages/perl/CPAN/authors/id/S/SB/SBECK/ CPAN] and install it by hand. 
{{{
perl -MCPAN -e shell
install Compress::Zlib
install Text::CSV_PP
install Text::CSV_XS
install Date::Manip
install HTML::PullParser
install HTML::Entities
install HTML::Parser
install HTML::TokeParser
install HTML::LinkExtor
install HTML::HeadParser
install HTML::Filter
install HTML::Tagset
install HTML::TreeBuilder
install HTML::TableExtract
install LWP
install Regexp::Common
install Finance::Quote
install Finance::QuoteHist
install Finance::QuoteHist::Yahoo
install DBI
install DBD::Pg
}}}

== Postgresql setup ==
  * install postgres, the primary development platform is Centos 5 with the stock postgres (8.1.18) that's shipped with it.

== Create the database ==
  * as postgres
{{{
export PGDATA=/postgres/db
export PGDATABASE=trader
echo export PGDATA=$PGDATA >> ~/.profile
echo export PGDATABASE=$PGDATABASE >> ~/.profile
mkdir $PGDATA
initdb -E UTF8 $PGDATA
pg_ctl -l logfile start  # ignore the warnings about the ports
# create the trader database
createdb trader # created the database
createlang plpgsql trader # turn on pgsql for triggers
psql trader -U postgres
}}}

== Create the tables etc ==
  * Still as the postgres user
{{{
psql trader -U postgres

trader=# \i tables/cart.sql
trader=# \i tables/deposits.sql
trader=# \i tables/exchange.sql
trader=# \i tables/gains.sql
trader=# \i tables/holdings.sql
trader=# \i tables/indicators.sql
trader=# \i tables/pf_summary.sql
trader=# \i tables/portfolios.sql
trader=# \i tables/queries.sql
trader=# \i tables/quotes.sql
trader=# \i tables/sector_quotes.sql
trader=# \i tables/sectors.sql
trader=# \i tables/simple_moving_averages.sql
trader=# \i tables/standard_deviations_from_mean.sql
trader=# \i tables/stock_sector.sql
trader=# \i tables/stocks.sql
trader=# \i tables/trade_dates.sql
trader=# \i tables/trades.sql
trader=# \i tables/users.sql
trader=# \i tables/watch.sql

trader=# \i constraints/cart.sql
trader=# \i constraints/deposits.sql
trader=# \i constraints/holdings.sql
trader=# \i constraints/indicators.sql
trader=# \i constraints/pf_summary.sql
trader=# \i constraints/portfolios.sql
trader=# \i constraints/queries.sql
trader=# \i constraints/quotes.sql
trader=# \i constraints/sector_quotes.sql
trader=# \i constraints/sectors.sql
trader=# \i constraints/stock_sector.sql
trader=# \i constraints/stocks.sql
trader=# \i constraints/trades.sql
trader=# \i constraints/watch.sql

trader=# \i functions/deviation.sql
trader=# \i functions/tidy_quotes.sql
trader=# \i functions/update_derived_tables.sql
trader=# \i functions/update_gains.sql
trader=# \i functions/update_moving_averages.sql
trader=# \i functions/update_stock_dates.sql
trader=# \i functions/update_trade_dates.sql
trader=# \i functions/update_williams_pcr.sql

trader=# \i triggers/update_derived_tables.sql

}}}

== Populate with data ==
  * If your data's coming from the LSE then
{{{
insert into exchange (exch, name, curr_desc, curr_char) values ('L', 'London Stock Exchange', 'GBP', '£');
}}}
  * Load all the share names with
{{{
bin/update-share_names.pl
}}}
  * Load the quotes from with. Beware, this may take days!
{{{
bin/update-quotes.pl
}}}
  * Create a user for the web interface
{{{
insert into users (name, passwd) values ('username of your choice', md5('password of your choice');
}}}

  * setup the web interface
{{{
install PHP
install Pear
sudo pear install HTML_QuickForm
}}}

== install the web pages and scripts ==
  * checkout the trunk version into `/var/www` or the root of your web server.
  * move the directory `bin` to your home directory.
  * update `html/trader-functions.php` with your server, database, account name and password. _We really should have a config file for those things_.
  * update the scripts in ~/bin with the same server, database, account and password details
  * install [http://www.advsofteng.com/ chart director] into /var/www/ChartDirector if you're going to use that to chart your results. The current code depends on it, but the charting script hasn't been released since it's based on an example included in the Chart Director source. Once a suitable replacement has been written it will be included.