#summary A list of features desirable for the 0.2 release.

Not in any particular order and not a commitment to implement!

== Issues to resolve ==

  * [http://code.google.com/p/trader-dss/issues/detail?id=22 Issue 22] Move DB login details from trader-functions.php into a config file which is also used by the scripts in ~/bin
  * [http://code.google.com/p/trader-dss/issues/detail?id=32 Issue 32] Before things get out of hand we need to get the documentation under control
  * [http://code.google.com/p/trader-dss/issues/detail?id=40 Issue 40] and [http://code.google.com/p/trader-dss/issues/detail?id=36 Issue 36] *(done)* should be implemented as a general warnings ability that would do routine checks on a selected stock and report things. This could be expanded into a comprehensive set of checks.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/trader-dss/issues/detail?id=39 Issue 39] *(done)* The current portfolio summary doesn't work with shorts, they just get treated as negative trades and do strange things to the graph and portfolio balance.

== Features to add ==

  * notes fields for trades need to be of type text and the interface needs to allow more editing (larger field window) *(not going to bother, safari allows resizing which is good enough for me)*
  * Documentation of selectable indicators and how to query them *(done)*
  * Lots more technical indicators (*done MCAD*, might do OBV, RSI and CCI. Williams %R being improved with [http://code.google.com/p/trader-dss/issues/detail?id=9 Issue 9])
     * chart integration for indicators
  * utility scripts for another exchange (loading share names and historic prices) *(might not bother...)*
  * Test with a second exchange
  * Some support for sectors *(would be nice, but I can't find free sector information so it may not happen)*
    * Better table support
    * Trigger updates?
    * utility script to update sector indicators?    
    * Integration into the web interface and charts
  * A Charts page where you can define and use charts in a similar way to the current queries page *(it looks like the stock inspector has replaced this)*
  * Ability to make deposits and withdrawals to a portfolio *(not worth the effort)*
  * Need to be able to edit portfolio details *(probably needs to be done, but I'm using psql for it now)*

== Things that have been added ==
  * The stock inspector, charts all of the information available for a scurity. Well, it will, but it charts lots now.
  * Trying to create a set of classes for securities. Not going well at the moment, but I'm trying. If I can get it to work, it will simplify the code enormously.
  * Auto stop loss has been implemented. If you say to sell after it falls 10% from the highest after you bought it, it will.
  * Warnings tell you if you're going long on a falling moving average or if you've disabled auto stop loss, that you've reached your stop loss
  